Good morning.
This is session 414.
And we'll get the slides in a second.
My name is Richard Williamson,
and this is Taking Advantage
of New Web Kit Features.
And I'm going to be telling you
about some of the new features in
Web Kit that we're introducing this year.
Just over a year ago now,
we introduced Safari,
and it's a great web browser.
Millions of people are using it,
and we're pretty proud of it.
But the technology behind Safari is
not just about web browsing.
Already last year,
some of the system applications
in OS X started to take advantage
of the technology behind Safari.
And this year,
Mail.app is going one step further.
Not only will it use the
Safari technology to display content,
you'll be able to compose
rich HTML messages using
the Safari technology.
We introduced one new app this year,
the Calculator.
Well, actually, a bunch of apps.
The technology behind Dashboard is
the same technology behind Safari.
And that technology is Web Kit.
So in this session,
I'm going to talk about the
new features in Web Kit,
but also I'm going to talk
about what it means to use this
technology not just for browsing,
but going beyond browsing.
So, quick recap.
What is Web Kit?
It's a framework that's shipped in OS X,
and it allows you to embed web content.
Obviously, HTML, images, plug-in data,
and it's highly scriptable.
And this last topic is something
which I'm going to focus on
quite a bit in this session.
Behind me is a high-level
architecture diagram of Web Kit.
The Web Kit framework actually
encapsulates the open source
KHTML and KJS engines.
And it's layered on top of
the App Kit for UI controls,
core graphics for rendering,
and foundation for NSURL loading.
And layered above the Web Kit framework
is a C API to allow Carbon applications
to access this technology.
Now, even though it's layered
on an open source engine,
we encourage you to use the Web Kit API.
You can look at the source
code in the implementation,
but please implement
against the Web Kit API.
Okay, what's new?
Well, an awful lot is new this year,
and I'm going to cover some new API areas
and also some new features in Web Kit.
One new area we've added this year is
support for what we call web archives.
And a web archive is simply a way
of representing both a page and its
associated resources in one package.
Lots of new scripting support.
And some of you may have seen
some of this already in some
of the dashboard sessions.
Dashboard relies heavily on the new
scripting technology that we have.
Editing APIs.
This is a big new area in Web Kit,
and the APIs we're introducing are pretty
comprehensive here to support the DOM,
the Document Object Model in Objective-C,
and also to support editing
in a very Cocoa-style fashion.
There's a session on Friday that
will drill down into quite
some depth in the editing APIs.
It was misnamed in the brochure,
and the real name should be
Web Kit HTML Editing APIs.
That's Friday at 10:30,
and I strongly encourage you
to go attend that session.
Dragging support.
We had a lot of requests from
you all to override the default
dragging behavior of the WebView.
You can now do that with the new APIs.
Plugins.
We've always supported plugins,
Netscape-style plugins in Web Kit.
But it's always been difficult
to write a plugin for Web Kit.
So this year,
we're including everything necessary
to write a Netscape plugin in the OS.
We've also introduced
a new form of plugins,
Cocoa plugins,
that make it vastly simpler
to add a plugin for Web Kit.
There's a great session
later this afternoon,
session 413,
that will go into some detail
about both the Cocoa plugin
API and the Netscape API.
and there's many, many other tweaks.
We don't really have enough
time to describe them all,
but a lot of these tweaks
were inspired by you all.
There's some activity on the
Web Kit SDK mailing list,
and we went through that list and
we gleaned a lot of information,
and there's also a lot of features
that you all have requested.
We pay attention,
so if there's a feature you'd like,
please let us know.
So in terms of these new APIs,
I'm going to focus on just two
areas in this presentation,
web archives and scripting.
But before I drill down into that,
I'm going to describe some of the new
features that we've added to Web Kit.
We now have comprehensive
support for CSS 2.1,
and we also have support for a lot
of advanced new CSS 3 features.
I'm still waking up.
There was a session yesterday,
Dave Haya gave, 419,
that went into a lot of detail about some
of the new CSS features that we have.
Even though that session has passed,
I encourage you to go and
review the slides and the
DVD material for that presentation.
So I talked about dragging support
at the Web Kit framework level.
We also added dragging support
at the JavaScript level.
What this means is that your pages
can interact with drag operations.
So you can actually have
an element participate,
an element on a web page
participate in a drag operation.
This is a very nice feature.
And the implementation of this follows
the Microsoft dragging support standards,
the factor standards.
Live Connect.
Safari 1.2 introduced Live Connect.
That's the ability to interact
between Java and JavaScript,
bridging those two languages.
We also introduced
XML HTTP support in Safari 1.2.
This is the ability to initiate
an HTTP request from JavaScript.
Very useful, for example,
if you want to dynamically add stock
data from a web service to a web page.
Many other applications.
There was a great session that's
also been given already on Monday,
but I refer you to that in the
DVD material that discussed
these last three things,
dragging support, live connect,
and XML HTTP request.
And finally, many,
many compatibility fixes.
This isn't a very glamorous topic,
but we spend a lot of time
trying to make Web Kit work
with the existing web content.
And believe me,
there's a lot of crazy content out there.
So it takes a lot of effort
sometimes to figure out what the
problem is before you even fix it.
So in addition to pushing
supported in Safari,
we've added some features
that go beyond the standards.
Many of these features were inspired
by Safari RSS and Dashboard.
They're things that we wanted
to do that you couldn't quite
do with existing standards.
One of those things is image compositing.
What this will allow you to do is
on the image tag on an HTML page,
specify a composite operator.
And for those of you that don't
know what composite operators are,
it's the ability to take advantage
of the alpha channel in an image when
you blip that image into a surface.
So all of the power of the
composite operations that are
provided by CG core graphics are
now available to you in web pages.
We added a few CSS extensions
to support the Flexbox model.
This is used in Safari RSS.
There are also a few other
things that we've added that
you can use in your web pages.
A couple of new input elements
that are also in Safari RSS,
the slider widget,
so you can actually have a slider
that will provide range values,
and a search field,
both very nice features.
And finally, the Canvas element.
So we found that we wanted to dynamically
draw into content on a web page.
You can't do that with anything
that's out there that's a standard.
So we introduced this new
element that will support that.
After talking about the new API in depth,
I'm going to drill down some
more on the Canvas element and
show you some examples of that.
So let's get into it and talk
about the Web Archive API.
Well, a web page is a lot more than
just the initial HTML page that
you use to lay out your document.
It's also the associated resource data,
images, JavaScript, and CSS.
So Web Archive is all of those
things collectively put together.
We represent resources by a new class,
Web Resource,
and the entire thing by a new class,
the Web Archive.
The on-disk format of a web
archive is a single file,
a single binary file,
which makes it very convenient
to move these things around.
There's also an in-memory format,
a pasteboard format,
that is used to facilitate editing.
So, for example,
if I have two web views and I make a
selection in one web view and drag that
to another web view that's editable,
the pasteboard representation
will be a web archive.
So this facilitates editing.
So you typically don't create
a web archive directly.
Instead,
you have an existing web page that
you create a web archive from,
or alternatively,
an existing selection that
you create a web archive from.
Once you have a web archive,
it's really simple to take that archive
and load it into a web view or use
it to replace a current selection.
So what does the code
look like to do this?
Very straightforward.
For those of you that are
familiar with Web Kit,
this will look very familiar.
We get the mainframe of the WebView,
we get the data source
associated with the frame,
and then we ask it to
create a web archive.
That's all it takes.
created a web archive from a selection.
You get the selected DOM range,
and you ask that.
Give me a web archive.
Now, that second method,
that selected DOM range,
is a new method that we're
introducing as part of the DOM API.
And again, I encourage you to attend
Friday's session to learn
more about that new DOM API.
So once I have a web archive,
how do I get it into the page?
The existing methods to get content
into a web view look like this.
Load request,
that takes an NSURL request,
and we'll go and retrieve the
data and put it into the web view.
Or load HTML string.
This will actually take an HTML snippet
and stick it into a web view.
The API looks like this,
very much what you would
expect to load a web archive.
Load archive,
and you pass in the archive.
Alternatively,
you can replace the current
selection like this.
Replace selection with archive.
Okay, to really drive this point home,
let me do a quick demo.
So there's a new way of saving a
page in Safari that takes advantage
of the Web Archive feature.
I can either save a page as raw source,
which I'll do here.
Go ahead and save that
in my documents folder.
All I can save is a web archive.
[Transcript missing]
Let's go ahead and load the Web Archive.
Much more like what you would expect.
So this is a great way --
This is a great way in your applications
if you want to create content that can
efficiently be packaged and loaded,
you can create web archives and include
them in your application bundles.
Back to the slides, please.
Okay, how about some stuff that can
really help you build a good widget?
That's what we're going
to talk about now.
But first, a little bit of homework.
There's always homework.
I'm going to talk about scripting
in quite some depth here.
What do I mean by scripting?
We've had JavaScript for a long time.
We all know about
JavaScript on web pages.
What I'm going to focus on in this
discussion is scripting in the context
of binding JavaScript to native code.
So that I can message from
JavaScript into native code
and in the other direction,
message JavaScript from native code.
Specifically, what I mean by native code
is a chunk of code like this.
This is some Objective-C code that
wants to call into JavaScript.
It wants to invoke this function
set image in JavaScript.
Alternatively,
I could have a hunk of JavaScript code
like this that wants to call
into an Objective-C instance.
In this case, an address book object.
I'm going to get some
address book records.
So when we talk about scripting,
it's really how do we bind native
code to JavaScript in Objective-C.
We've also introduced support
for binding JavaScript to C.
You don't have to
implement in Objective-C.
You could do this in C, too.
And this is really useful for plugins,
in particular,
existing Netscape plugins that
aren't implemented in Cocoa.
I'm going to talk about
the Objective-C to
JavaScript bridging in this session.
The plug-in session this afternoon
is going to describe in more detail
the C bindings to JavaScript.
First, let's talk about calling
JavaScript from Objective-C.
So JavaScript objects in
Objective-C are represented by
what we call a WebScript object.
And a WebScript object is an
Objective-C class that has methods
to allow you to call functions
and get and set properties on the
corresponding JavaScript instance.
How do you get to the
JavaScript interpreter?
What is the root?
How do you get that hook into
the JavaScript interpreter?
Well, it's a JavaScript window object.
And the JavaScript window object
in Objective-C corresponds to
the window object that is the
root object on your web pages.
And there's a new method on WebView,
Windows Script Object,
that gets you that initial
hook into a web page.
Here's an example of
how you could use it.
Very simply, to get the location.href
property from a web page.
So in this case, I'm asking the WebView,
give me the Windows script object,
and then give me your location property,
which is an object, JavaScript,
WebScript object again.
And then I ask that object,
give me the href property.
It's as simple as that.
There's an alternative
method to do the same thing.
I can take a little chunk of
JavaScript and evaluate that on
a particular WebScript object.
In this case,
I'm evaluating location.href
on the window WebScript object.
These two mechanisms are equivalent.
How do I invoke that
JavaScript function from Objective-C?
Well, first,
I get the WinDescript object again,
then I create an array that
represents the arguments that I'm
going to pass into JavaScript.
In this case,
it's just a single element in the array,
the name of an image that
I'm going to pass to @image.
And then I invoke the JavaScript function
by calling call_webscript_method
with the name of the function
@image and the arguments.
Again, alternatively,
I can use a snippet of
JavaScript to do the same thing.
So in this case, add image.
Again,
these two mechanisms are equivalent.
Depending upon your usage patterns,
you can use one or the other.
What kinds of things can
I pass to and from JavaScript?
Well,
you can pass any object to JavaScript,
any Objective-C object.
NSStrings and NSNumbers are
treated specially.
An NSString is converted
to a string in JavaScript.
An NSNumber is converted
to a number in JavaScript.
: Web Script Objects.
Again,
the Web Script Object represents the
JavaScript Object in Objective-C.
When you pass one of
these back to JavaScript,
it becomes unwrapped and
you have a reference to the
original JavaScript Object.
All other kinds of Objective-C instances
are represented by a proxy in JavaScript.
Here's a summary of the type matching
between JavaScript and Objective-C when
calling JavaScript from Objective-C.
NSString, String, NSNumbers,
mapped to a number.
Now, an NSArray is a special case.
Arrays in JavaScript are strange,
flexible, but strange beasts.
You can have sparse arrays,
you can have associative arrays,
and it's all the same object.
NSArrays are much simpler,
straightforward arrays,
but there isn't a one-to-one
correspondence between a
JavaScript array and an NSArray.
The array you get in JavaScript is
read-only and limited.
You can't use it like
an associative array,
but you can access the
elements positionally.
A Web Script object, of course,
as I've said,
gets unwrapped in JavaScript and
becomes the original JavaScript object.
And any other Objective-C instance
is mapped to a proxy in JavaScript.
And I'll talk a little bit
more about proxies next.
First, let's do a demo.
And I'll do a quick demo to show you
how to write a Web Kit application
to interact between Cocoa components,
Cocoa widgets, and a web page.
So let's build this from scratch.
I've got a fresh Xcode project here.
First, let's build an .ib file.
: I'm going to take the components
from the existing project and
copy them in to this new project.
So let's get a Nib file.
Copy that into the project.
And open up this nib file.
So you can see here I've got
three controls that are going to
specify three different images.
And when I click on
one of these controls,
it's going to set the content
of the web view to be the
appropriate image for that button.
And you'll see that
The controller is just going to send
-- or the radio matrix is just going to
send a message to a controller object
to pick an appropriate picture type.
So let's go ahead and hide this
and pull in the code to do that.
Here we go.
So this code is very straightforward.
It has the single method -- well,
it has two methods.
I'll talk about this one first.
Picture type clicked.
This looks very much like the
example I showed you on the slides.
We get the Windows script object,
which corresponds to the
window object of the web page.
Then I go ahead and call set
image with arguments that I'm
constructing to set the appropriate
URL for that particular image.
Let me back up a second and show you
what we do in our Wake from Nib method.
What I'd like to do is load content
into that web view that represents
the page that I'd like to show.
So I do that by extracting a resource
out of the bundle that is a string.
It's basically just a text file.
I convert that to a string and
then load it into the web view.
So let's take a look at the web
page that we're going to use here.
Add it as a resource.
Very straightforward page.
It has a single JavaScript function.
It's going to get the
image element by ID,
and then it's going to set the
source of the image element.
And this source is a URL.
The final thing I need
to do is add some images.
Picture of a fire.
Let's add that.
And a picture of the Grand Canyon and
a picture of Napa Valley.
Go ahead and add those.
And then let's build
this project and run it.
Okay, so here's my application.
Now, when I click on Napa,
what actually happened there is I sent
a message from this Objective-C control
to my Objective-C controller instance,
which in turn sent a message to
JavaScript to load the Napa image.
Click on the fire button.
It's sending the fire URL to
JavaScript and Grand Canyon.
Back to the slides.
Okay.
What about the other direction?
I have some JavaScript code that
wants to call into Objective-C.
Well, this is where proxies come in.
If you have an Objective-C object that
you want to have appear in JavaScript,
we'll represent that object by proxy
and we'll automatically reflect the
methods and the properties of the
Objective-C instance in JavaScript.
And this is an opt-- we have an
opt-in policy for the methods
that we expose to JavaScript.
What that means is you have to tell us,
"I want this particular method
or this particular property
to appear in JavaScript."
And the kinds of things that
you can expose to JavaScript are
any Objective-C object.
You can expose methods that
take scalar parameters.
Scalars are in some floats, of course,
and other kinds of scalar types.
You can also expose
scalar instance variables.
What you can't do is expose structures
or pointers to arbitrary memory.
You can expose a pointer to an object,
but no other kinds of pointer types.
Okay, so again,
let's say I have this example class,
an address book class,
and it has these methods,
get a shared instance,
get a composite name,
the first and the last name,
and a way to position the
cursor in the address book,
position, card, and index.
: I want to expose this to JavaScript.
How do I do it?
Well, I get the instance,
the shared instance,
and then I simply set the
Objective-C object as a
property on the Window object.
I get the Window script
object and call setValueForKey
with the name address book.
That name is the name that will
appear in your JavaScript code
for this particular property.
: So from JavaScript,
if I wanted to write something
to retrieve the first
name in my address book,
this is how I do it.
Window.addressBook gets
me the Window object,
and I call positionCardAtIndex to
position it at the first record,
and then I call compositeName.
Simple as that.
For those of you paying attention,
that last slide had something
that was a little bit strange,
that underbar at the
end of that method name.
What's that all about?
It's kind of ugly.
Well, by default,
we have to map Objective-C names
to JavaScript names,
and Objective-C names have colons
after each or before each parameter.
So a colon gets mapped to an underbar.
If you want to override the default
name of an Objective-C method
that gets mapped to JavaScript,
you can implement this
method on your class,
the class that's exported to JavaScript.
Webscript name for selector.
In this case,
we take a selector in and we return the
name that will be exposed to JavaScript.
I'm going to use position card
at index with no underbar.
Now my JavaScript code
will look like this.
Position card at index.
Okay, so in practice,
you typically want to expose
functionality into JavaScript very early
on in the construction of your page.
So you might have JavaScript code
in the head section of your page,
and that JavaScript code
needs to access functionality,
native functionality.
So when do you actually publish
your objects into JavaScript?
Well, you can do that really early on.
We've added a new web
frame load delegate method,
which is Windows Script Object Available.
And this method will be called before
we do any processing on the page.
So you can insert your functionality
into the JavaScript interpreter before
we evaluate any JavaScript on the page.
So in this case, I'm going to insert the
address book instance into the
JavaScript namespace very early on.
Okay, to summarize the time
matching in this direction,
a JavaScript string is
mapped to an NSString.
A JavaScript number is
mapped to an NSNumber.
All other kinds of JavaScript objects,
including JavaScript arrays,
are mapped to WebScript objects,
and JavaScript proxies,
or an Objective-C proxy in JavaScript,
when it's passed back to Objective-C,
is represented by the
original Objective-C instance.
Okay, let's do a demo in this direction.
And what I'm going to show you is a demo
To dynamically construct a web page
using the records from my address book.
Let's close this project.
And again, we'll build this from scratch
to show you how simple this is.
And I've built it already,
so it's not really from scratch, but --
So first thing,
we'll copy the Nib file again
for this project into Xcode.
And this Nib file is
really straightforward.
It's just a single
window with a web view.
Now,
one thing that we've done here is we've
set up the frame load delegate of the
web view to be the controller instance.
So this is the instance that
will receive that message,
"Window script object available."
So let's go ahead and go into Xcode.
Let's take a look at the source code.
Well, actually,
first let me show you the address
book class that we'll be exposing.
So it's a pretty simple
object with a shared instance.
It implements two methods that we -- or
two or three methods that we care about.
Composite name.
This will return the name of one
of my contacts in my address book,
a way to position the
cursor in the address book,
and a way to get the number of cards.
We're actually using the address book
framework here to download my entire
address book into a simple NSArray.
That's how we're going to get the data.
There are a few things that
are relevant to this demo.
Webscript name for selector.
This is how we map the name position card
at index colon to position card at index.
And this method is the method that
we implement to expose the methods.
This says, yes, I want these methods
available in JavaScript.
And you have to implement this method.
If you didn't implement this method,
or if you returned no to this method,
every single method of your
Objective-C object would be exposed,
including things like Dialog.
And it doesn't make a lot of sense
to call Dialog from JavaScript.
Let's add the controller
instance source code.
This looks pretty similar
to the previous demo.
I'm going to extract some content,
HTML content,
out of the application bundle.
And I'm going to set that content
as the HTML of the web frame
in my Awake from Nib method.
Now, very simply,
in the frame load delegate method,
I'm going to set the address
book as the address book
property of the window object.
So I need to do one
additional thing here,
and that is add the
address book framework.
One additional thing, too,
I have to copy over the
source for the page.
Let's take a look at that.
So this is a pretty simple page.
Initially, it has an empty body.
There's no content in the page.
We're going to dynamically
construct the entire page,
and that's going to be done
in GetContacts on LoadHandler.
And this simply accesses the
address book instance that
we've exported to JavaScript,
gets a number of cards,
and then iterates over the cards,
getting the name of each
record in the address book.
And then it creates a div and
adds that to the document.
Let's go ahead and build and run this.
There we go.
Let's pull up the address book and
make sure that these records match.
Whoops.
Phone number's in there.
All of the records in the
address book match the
dynamically constructed web page.
So it's really simple to do this stuff.
If you have native functionality
and you want to get into JavaScript,
it's very straightforward.
And I think there's going to
be a lot of synergy between the
Cocoa frameworks and this technology.
So, for example,
Core Data is going to really allow
a lot of interesting applications
that use web pages as front
end to relational databases.
One last topic on scripting,
and that's the DOM.
Well, we've introduced a significant
new set of Objective-C APIs to
expose the DOM in Objective-C.
Now, just a quick recap,
the DOM is the document
object model of a web page,
and there's a set of
standardized APIs from the
W3C that define the DOM API,
and we have a mapping of
that API in Objective-C.
Now,
if I get a DOM object in Objective-C,
what does that mean
in terms of scripting?
Well, all DOM objects inherit
from WebScript object,
so that means if you have a DOM object,
it's inherently scriptable.
Let me have another call out
to the session of Friday.
Again,
that's going to be a great session.
It talks about the DOM API in detail.
But let me show you a quick
example of how you would do this.
There's a new method on Webframe
to get the DOM document.
That's the document object
that represents your page.
And you can evaluate WebScript on it,
just as you can any
other WebScript object.
In this case,
I'm going to call getElementById to get
the element with the ID context div.
This is equivalent to
the Objective-C method,
getElementById.
getElementById is a new method in
the DOM API that we're introducing.
These two mechanisms are equivalent.
So why would you use one over the other?
Well, it's much more efficient to use
the Objective-C API directly.
So, for example, if you're doing things
that iterate over a tree,
it's much more efficient to use the
getElementById if you're going to scan
the entire document for an element,
say.
On the other hand, if you're doing stuff
dynamically with JavaScript,
the first method is appropriate.
So there's a lot of flexibility
in the scripting API.
We think it's going to give
you a lot of new capabilities
that are pretty significant.
Okay, finally,
last feature that we're going
to discuss in some detail.
The Canvas Element.
When we were putting
together the dashboard,
We came to the conclusion pretty quickly
there were some things we wanted to
do that we just couldn't do in the
dashboard with existing HTML technology.
One of those things was doing
procedural rendering into a gadget.
We introduced the
Canvas element to support that.
What it allows you to do is to draw
into an HTML element on a page.
Specifically,
you draw into a page using a context.
We've created a 2D context that
allows you to do 2D drawing
operations into a canvas element.
The canvas element is treated
very much like the image element.
By default,
it's a replaced inline element,
which means it flows just
like an image on a page.
And because the context is
backed by Core graphics,
you have all of the power of
Core graphics in terms of the
rendering capabilities into a canvas,
which means it's hardware accelerated
if you have the appropriate hardware.
[Transcript missing]
So specifically,
the drawing operations that we expose
are the same drawing operations
that you can do with a CG context.
You can construct arbitrary paths,
including curves.
You can fill and stroke those paths.
You can composite images.
And you have control over the
transparency levels and the compositing
operation at the global level.
So you can actually set a
composite operator for drawing
other than just image compositing.
This is an example of how you'd
specify a canvas element on a web page.
It looks very much like the image tag.
You specify a width and a height,
a composite operator.
This is the operator that will be
used to composite the resulting
image into your web page.
And this, by the way,
the same attribute name that
we've added to the image element.
Okay, so how do I actually do the
drawing into the Canvas element?
Well, here's an example.
In this case,
I'm going to draw a line from the top
left to the lower right of the Canvas.
The first thing we do is we
get the Canvas element using
the familiar get element by ID,
and then we ask that element,
give me a context.
In this case, a 2D context.
Now I begin my drawing.
I'm going to use the clear context.
It's going to fill the
context with transparency.
Construct a path, you know,
00 to the lower left, I mean lower right.
Set the stroke color
and stroke that path.
Pretty straightforward.
So I think this stuff is best
illustrated with some demos.
Let me show you some demos of the canvas.
Let me increase the font size here a bit.
Okay.
So here's a really simple web page
that specifies a Canvas element.
Not too exciting yet.
Let's open up Safari and load the page.
Now let me turn the network back
on before I forget to do that.
So what does this look like?
Well, that's it.
A rectangle.
Not too exciting.
But we're just starting.
So let's go ahead and draw
some lines into the canvas.
So what I'm going to do is
add a little script in here.
And this is actually going to draw
two lines like this through the page.
But we're going to do it in the
onload handler of the body element.
Okay.
Let's go ahead and save
this as something different.
These lines in Canvas, ooh.
Okay, let's crank this up a bit.
Show something a bit more whizzy.
Okay, this looks more interesting.
Let's hide the other applications.
So what I have here is a rectangle.
So, we're going to start off with some
shapes that we're drawing dynamically
frame by frame using a canvas.
And we can do things, of course,
you know, change the colors.
And because the canvas
itself is an element on the
page like any other element,
we can do CSS tricks like positioning.
So I'm going to dynamically move
the canvas as I render each frame.
continue to do things
like change the colors.
There's one other thing I want
to show you on this page
which is kind of interesting,
and that's the circle up here.
This is another canvas,
but it's a canvas used
to implement a widget,
a new kind of widget on the web page.
And what this widget does is
specify the offset and the angle
of the shadow in each shape.
So you'll notice there's a
blurred shadow in each shape.
As I move this control,
you'll see that shadow change.
So this is implemented using
standard JavaScript event handling
and the canvas to render the widget.
Pretty nifty.
Of course,
we can change the blur rate with
the new slider input element.
I can do things like change
the background color.
So this is pretty cool.
Let me show you one other thing
that I think is pretty cool.
Let's stop this thing moving.
There's a new debug menu in
JavaScript that I call Dashboard Mode.
And what it does is it takes away
all the stuff that Safari adds,
and you just have the pure
HTML here with no background.
So pretty nifty.
Let me just show you how
powerful this really is.
Let's pull up another window.
I'm going to load some
interesting content here.
The Incredibles.
This trailer.
I love this trailer.
Okay.
And you can see that it's
doing everything you'd expect.
This is a web page being rendered
transparently over a QuickTime movie.
Pretty amazing.
Just a few more slides.
So it's not just about web browsing.
This Web Kit technology
is really powerful,
and now with this ability to
bind all the Cocoa framework
technology into JavaScript,
there's a lot of new capabilities
that we're providing to you.
You can build visually compelling
applications really quickly,
and you can leverage your
existing web design skills.
Rapid prototyping.
This is an interpreted environment,
so you don't have to go
through a compile phase.
It's great.
Simple deployment.
These are just web pages.
So I said we'd build a gadget.
So let me do that now in the
remaining time that we have.
This is actually a really simple gadget.
It's the clock.
It's most of the clock that
is included in the dashboard.
So the first thing we're going
to do is construct a web page.
Let's close this.
Increase the font size.
Let's save this.
Okay, not very interesting.
Right now,
I'm just creating the face of the clock.
It's simply an image.
We need to put a...
I'm going to load an
HTML element around this.
I'm being kind of sloppy.
I'm not specifying the doc type.
Okay.
Let's load this into Safari.
Very sloppy HTML at this point,
but that's the clock face.
That's the beginning of the web page.
Of the gadget, I should say.
Now what I'd like to do is
add some JavaScript code
To load in the images that I want
to use for the clock hands.
So what I'd like to do is have just
three images that I use for the hours,
minutes, and secondhand,
and use the Canvas element to
apply transforms to the images as
I composite them into the Canvas.
[Transcript missing]
The minute hand, second hand,
and hour hand,
and it goes ahead and loads them.
And I have this little function
that counts up the images as
they're loaded because in this case,
the images are all local,
but they could be remote.
So it may take some
time to load the images.
And I don't want to start compositing
until I have all of the images.
Okay, what next?
Let's add a load handler.
: So what I've done here is I've
added a canvas element that's going
to be positioned using CSS right
on top of the image element.
Initially, it's just transparent,
but it's positioned
over the image element.
This is standard CSS.
You can see I'm specifying
absolute positioning at 0,
0.
So let's take a look at what
this looks like now in Safari.
That's exactly the same.
There's nothing new.
OK.
Let's add some code to draw the hands.
First,
I guess we have to add one more thing.
We have to add the code that will figure
out the appropriate angle to composite
We have to know where to
position the second hand,
the minute hand, and the hour hand.
We do this using the standard
JavaScript data object,
some simple math.
We compute the angles for the
second minute and hour hand.
Then we go ahead and draw the hands.
Let's load this again.
Still nothing new.
Okay.
Let's get to the final piece,
actually drawing the hands.
So what we did with the unload handler
is we added a JavaScript function
that's going to be called every second.
And this JavaScript function
will go ahead and compute the angles
for each of the hands and then call
a drawHands method that will do the
actual work of compositing the images.
And the drawHands method
The first thing we do is make sure
we have all of the images available.
The image count has to be three.
Let's clear the context.
And then we call save.
Well, what's save all about?
Save saves the graphic state
of the context that's used
to render into the canvas.
So after calling save
followed by restore,
if you've done any transform operations
in between a save and restore,
they'll be restored as appropriate.
So what we actually are doing
here is we're translating to
the center of the clock face,
actually just a little bit above
the center of the clock face because
that's the center of the circle.
Then we go ahead and call drawHand,
which is my JavaScript function up here,
to composite that image.
Now,
we've translated already to the center,
but now I need to rotate as appropriate
to composite the image hand.
So here's a rotate of the angle
that we previously computed.
And finally, finally,
we get to draw the image using
drawImage on the context.
And then we restore the angle because the
next hand is going to be the image hand.
And we painted a different rotation.
So that's it.
Let's go ahead and load it now.
There we have hands working,
but they're not quite in the center.
What's going on with that?
Well, by default,
the style of the body element on a
web page has a margin that isn't 00.
So let's go ahead and add some
style to adjust the margin.
is the founder of the body element.
We're going to set the margins to zero.
We learned that.
Looks much better.
There we have the clock widget.
Let's go ahead and
turn on dashboard mode.
Whoops.
Just like it appears in dashboard.
So I want to say a few final words about
the availability of these technologies.
Of course, everything we've talked about
today is going to be available
in Safari 2.0 and Tiger.
All of the Web Kit features that we've
talked about today are also going
to be available on Panther in 10.3,
and there's already a developer
preview of that release
that you can download today.
Just one final point.
There's lots of documentation
and sample code available on
the connect.apple.com site.
I encourage you to check that out.